A vector is something that has both magnitude and direction.Magnitude and direction. So let's think of an example of what wouldn't and what would be a vector. So if someone tells you that something is moving at 5 mph, this information by itself is not a vector quantity, it's only it's only specifying a magnitude. It's not. We don't know what direction this thing is. Moving 5 mph in. So this right over here, which is often referred to as a speed. This is a speed is not a vector quantity just by itself.This is considered to be a scalar quantity if we want it to be a vector, we would also have to specify the direction. So, for example, someone might say it's moving 5 mph E. Let's say it's moving 5 mph do East. So now this combined 5 mph do East. This is a vector quantity and now we wouldn't call it speed anymore. We would call it velocity.So velocity is a vector. We're specifying the magnitude 5 mph and the direction East, but how would can we actually visualize this? So let's say we're operating in two dimensions, and what's neat about linear algebra is obviously a lot of what applies in two dimensions will extend to three, and then even 456 as many dimensions as we want. Our brains have trouble visualizing beyond three, but what's neat is we can mathematically deal with beyond three. Using linear algebra will see that in future videos.But let's just go back to our straight traditional 2 dimensional vector right over here. So one way we could represent it as an arrow that is 5 units long will assume that of our units are unit here is mph and that's pointed to the right where will say the right is East. So for example, I could start an arrow right over here and I could make its length 5. The length of the arrow specifies the magnitude, so 123.45And then the direction that the arrow is pointed in specifies its direction. So this right over here could could represent visually this vector. If we say that the horizontal axis is, say East, or the positive horizontal direction is moving in the East, this would be West. That would be North, and then that would be South. Now it's interesting about vectors. Is that we only care about the magnitude in the direction. We don't necessarily care where we start, where we place it when we think about it visually like this.For example, this would be the exact same vector would be equivalent to vector to this vector has the same length, so it has the same magnitude, has a length of five and its direction is also due East. So these two vectors are equivalent. Now one thing that you might say is, well, that's fair enough, but how do we represent it? With a little bit more mathematical notation, so we don't have to draw it every time and we can start performing operations on it the typical way. One, if you want a variable to represent a vector is usually a lowercase letter.If you have, if you're publishing a book, you can bold it, but when you're doing it in your notebook, you would typically put a little arrow on top of it, and usually there's several ways that you could do. You could literally say 5 mph East, but that doesn't feel like you can really operate on that easily. The typical ways to specify if you're in two dimensions to specify 2 numbers that tell you how much is this vector moving in of these dimensions. So for example, this one only moves in the horizontal dimension, and so we'll put our horizontal dimension first.So you might call this vector 5 comma zero. It's moving 5 positive five in the horizontal direction and it's not moving at all in the vertical direction, and the notation might change. You might also see notation and actually in a linear algebra context it's more typical to write it as a column vector this 50 this once again the first coordinate represents how much we're moving in the horizontal direction and the second coordinate represents how much.Are we moving? How much are we moving in the vertical direction now? This one isn't that interesting. You could have other vectors. You could have a vector that looks like this. It's moving, let's it's moving three in the horizontal direction and positive 4 so 1234 in the vertical direction. So let me see, it might look something like it might look something like this.So this could be another vector right? Over here. Maybe we call this vector vector A and once again I want to specify that is a vector and you see here that if you were to break it down and it's in the horizontal direction it is moving, it is moving three or it's shifting three in the horizontal direction and it's shifting 4 positive four in the vertical direction. So and we get that by literally thinking about how much, how much.We're moving up and how much we're moving to the right when we start at the end of the arrow and go to the front of it. So this vector might be specified as 33434 and you could use the pythagorean theorem to figure out the actual length of this vector, and you'll see 'cause this is a 345 triangle that this actually has a magnitude of five, and as we study more and more linear algebra, we're going to start extending these to multiple dimensions. Obviously we can.Visualize up to three dimensions in 4 dimensions it becomes more abstract and that's why this type of annotation is useful because it's very hard to dry four, 5 or 20 dimensional arrow like this.